README.md, before:

# Soplang | Modern Programming Education Platform

<div align="center">
  <img src="public/logo.png" alt="Soplang Logo" width="200"/>
  <p><em>Empowering the next generation of programmers through intuitive language learning</em></p>
</div>

## About Soplang

Soplang is an innovative educational platform designed to make programming language learning accessible, engaging, and effective. Inspired by Python's readability and modern pedagogical approaches, Soplang creates a seamless bridge between theoretical computer science concepts and practical coding skills.

### Our Mission

To democratize programming education by providing a structured, intuitive learning path that adapts to individual learning styles while maintaining academic rigor and industry relevance.

## Platform Features

- **Interactive Learning Environment**: Code, compile, and run programs directly in your browser
- **Progressive Curriculum**: Structured learning paths from fundamentals to advanced concepts
- **Real-time Feedback**: Immediate code evaluation with helpful error messages and suggestions
- **Mathec Integration**: Mathematical concepts seamlessly integrated with programming exercises
- **Multilingual Support**: Learn programming concepts in multiple human languages
- **Accessibility Focus**: Designed with eye-friendly color schemes and accessibility standards
- **Community Collaboration**: Share projects, participate in challenges, and learn together

## Educational Approach

Soplang's educational methodology is built on three core principles:

1. **Concept Before Syntax**: Understanding the "why" before the "how"
2. **Learn by Doing**: Practical application through guided exercises and projects
3. **Scaffolded Learning**: Progressive complexity with appropriate support at each stage

## Language Syntax Highlighting

Soplang provides syntax highlighting support for popular code editors to enhance the learning experience. Our syntax highlighting emphasizes readability and makes it easier to identify different elements of the code.

### VSCode Extension

For Visual Studio Code users, we provide a dedicated extension that offers full syntax highlighting for Soplang files. The extension uses the following TextMate grammar:

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/martinring/tmlanguage/master/tmlanguage.json",
  "name": "Soplang",
  "scopeName": "source.soplang",
  "patterns": [
    { "include": "#comments" },
    { "include": "#keywords" },
    { "include": "#strings" },
    { "include": "#numbers" },
    { "include": "#identifiers" }
  ],
  "repository": {
    "comments": {
      "patterns": [
        {
          "name": "comment.block.soplang",
          "begin": "/\\*",
          "end": "\\*/",
          "captures": {
            "0": {
              "name": "punctuation.definition.comment.soplang"
            }
          }
        },
        {
          "name": "comment.line.soplang",
          "match": "//.*$"
        }
      ]
    },
    "keywords": {
      "patterns": [
        {
          "name": "keyword.control.soplang",
          "match": "\\b(?:door|howl|soo_celi|qor|akhri|haddii|haddii_kale|haddii_kalena|ku_celi|inta_ay|jooji|sii_wad|isku_day|qabo|ka_keen|fasalka|ka_dhaxal|cusub|nafta|liis|shey|waxba|run|been)\\b"
        }
      ]
    },
    "strings": {
      "patterns": [
        {
          "name": "string.quoted.double.soplang",
          "begin": "\"",
          "end": "\"",
          "patterns": [
            {
              "name": "constant.character.escape.soplang",
              "match": "\\\\."
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "name": "string.quoted.single.soplang",
          "begin": "'",
          "end": "'",
          "patterns": [
            {
              "name": "constant.character.escape.soplang",
              "match": "\\\\."
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    },
    "numbers": {
      "patterns": [
        {
          "name": "constant.numeric.soplang",
          "match": "\\b\\d+(?:\\.\\d+)?\\b"
        }
      ]
    },
    "identifiers": {
      "patterns": [
        {
          "name": "variable.other.soplang",
          "match": "\\b[a-zA-Z_][a-zA-Z0-9_]*\\b"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

### Soplang Keywords

The language includes the following Somali-based keywords that are highlighted:

| Keyword | English Equivalent | Description |
|---------|-------------------|-------------|
| `door` | function | Defines a function |
| `howl` | return | Returns a value from a function |
| `soo_celi` | import | Imports modules or functions |
| `qor` | print | Outputs text to the console |
| `akhri` | input | Reads user input |
| `haddii` | if | Conditional statement |
| `haddii_kale` | else | Alternative conditional branch |
| `haddii_kalena` | elif | Additional conditional branch |
| `ku_celi` | for | Loop iteration |
| `inta_ay` | while | Conditional loop |
| `jooji` | break | Exits a loop |
| `sii_wad` | continue | Skips to next iteration |
| `isku_day` | try | Exception handling block |
| `qabo` | catch | Catches exceptions |
| `ka_keen` | from | Imports from modules |
| `fasalka` | class | Defines a class |
| `ka_dhaxal` | extends | Inherits from a class |
| `cusub` | new | Creates a new instance |
| `nafta` | self | References the current instance |
| `liis` | list | Array data structure |
| `shey` | object | Object data structure |
| `waxba` | null | Null value |
| `run` | true | Boolean true value |
| `been` | false | Boolean false value |

### Installation

To install the VSCode extension:

1. Open VS Code
2. Go to Extensions (Ctrl+Shift+X)
3. Search for "Soplang"
4. Click Install

Alternatively, you can download the extension from our [downloads page](https://soplang.org/downloads).

### Other Editors

We also provide syntax highlighting configurations for:
- Sublime Text
- Atom
- JetBrains IDEs (IntelliJ, PyCharm, etc.)
- Vim/Neovim

Visit our [documentation](https://soplang.org/docs/tools/syntax-highlighting) for installation instructions for these editors.

## Technical Implementation

### Tech Stack

- **Framework**: [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) for server-rendered React applications
- **Styling**: [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) for responsive, accessible design
- **Deployment**: [Vercel](https://vercel.com/) for seamless continuous deployment

### Getting Started for Developers

#### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18.x or later
- npm or yarn

#### Installation

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/soplang/soplang.org.git
cd soplang.org
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
# or
yarn install
```

3. Run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
```

4. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser to see the result.

## Project Structure

```
/soplang.org
├── src/                  # Source directory
│   ├── app/              # Next.js App Router
│   │   ├── about/        # About page
│   │   ├── blog/         # Blog pages
│   │   ├── community/    # Community page
│   │   ├── docs/         # Documentation pages
│   │   ├── downloads/    # Downloads page
│   │   └── page.tsx      # Homepage
│   ├── components/       # Reusable components
│   │   ├── Footer.tsx    # Footer component
│   │   ├── Navbar.tsx    # Navigation bar component
│   │   └── ...           # Other components
│   └── styles/           # Global styles
│       └── globals.css   # Global CSS with Tailwind imports
├── public/               # Static assets
├── next.config.js        # Next.js configuration
├── tailwind.config.js    # Tailwind CSS configuration
├── tsconfig.json         # TypeScript configuration
└── package.json          # Project dependencies and scripts
```

## Design Philosophy

### Accessibility First

Soplang is designed with accessibility as a priority. Our color scheme is specifically chosen to reduce eye strain during extended learning sessions:

```css
:root {
  --primary-color: #3F72AF; /* Soft blue - easier on eyes */
  --secondary-color: #5E9A78; /* Soft green - math education friendly */
  --background-color: #F9F7F7; /* Very light gray with slight warmth */
}
```

### Responsive Design

The platform is fully responsive, providing an optimal learning experience across all devices from desktop workstations to mobile phones.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions from educators, developers, and language enthusiasts. Whether you're improving documentation, adding new features, or fixing bugs, your input helps make programming education more accessible to everyone.

Please see our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information.

## Educational Partners

Soplang collaborates with educational institutions worldwide to develop curriculum materials and teaching methodologies. If you're an educator interested in partnering with us, please contact [education@soplang.org](mailto:education@soplang.org).

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Contact

- **Website**: [https://soplang.org](https://soplang.org)
- **Email**: [contact@soplang.org](mailto:contact@soplang.org)
- **Community**: [Discord](https://discord.gg/n296G4dd7x)
- **Twitter**: [@SoplangEdu](https://twitter.com/xSoplang)

Commit message:

✅Update Soplang website to emphasize its identity as a standalone Somali programming language

README.md, after:

# Soplang | Modern Programming Education Platform

<div align="center">
  <img src="public/logo.png" alt="Soplang Logo" width="200"/>
  <p><em>Empowering the next generation of programmers through intuitive language learning</em></p>
</div>

## About Soplang

Soplang is an innovative educational platform designed to make programming language learning accessible, engaging, and effective. As the first Somali programming language, Soplang creates a seamless bridge between theoretical computer science concepts and practical coding skills, with a focus on making programming accessible to Somali speakers worldwide.

### Our Mission

To democratize programming education by providing a structured, intuitive learning path that adapts to individual learning styles while maintaining academic rigor and industry relevance, with special emphasis on accessibility for Somali speakers.

## Platform Features

- **Interactive Learning Environment**: Code, compile, and run programs directly in your browser
- **Progressive Curriculum**: Structured learning paths from fundamentals to advanced concepts
- **Real-time Feedback**: Immediate code evaluation with helpful error messages and suggestions
- **Mathec Integration**: Mathematical concepts seamlessly integrated with programming exercises
- **Multilingual Support**: Learn programming concepts in multiple human languages
- **Accessibility Focus**: Designed with eye-friendly color schemes and accessibility standards
- **Community Collaboration**: Share projects, participate in challenges, and learn together

## Educational Approach

Soplang's educational methodology is built on three core principles:

1. **Concept Before Syntax**: Understanding the "why" before the "how"
2. **Learn by Doing**: Practical application through guided exercises and projects
3. **Scaffolded Learning**: Progressive complexity with appropriate support at each stage

## Language Syntax Highlighting

Soplang provides syntax highlighting support for popular code editors to enhance the learning experience. Our syntax highlighting emphasizes readability and makes it easier to identify different elements of the code.

### VSCode Extension

For Visual Studio Code users, we provide a dedicated extension that offers full syntax highlighting for Soplang files. The extension uses the following TextMate grammar:

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/martinring/tmlanguage/master/tmlanguage.json",
  "name": "Soplang",
  "scopeName": "source.soplang",
  "patterns": [
    { "include": "#comments" },
    { "include": "#keywords" },
    { "include": "#strings" },
    { "include": "#numbers" },
    { "include": "#identifiers" }
  ],
  "repository": {
    "comments": {
      "patterns": [
        {
          "name": "comment.block.soplang",
          "begin": "/\\*",
          "end": "\\*/",
          "captures": {
            "0": {
              "name": "punctuation.definition.comment.soplang"
            }
          }
        },
        {
          "name": "comment.line.soplang",
          "match": "//.*$"
        }
      ]
    },
    "keywords": {
      "patterns": [
        {
          "name": "keyword.control.soplang",
          "match": "\\b(?:door|howl|soo_celi|qor|akhri|haddii|haddii_kale|haddii_kalena|ku_celi|inta_ay|jooji|sii_wad|isku_day|qabo|ka_keen|fasalka|ka_dhaxal|cusub|nafta|liis|shey|waxba|run|been)\\b"
        }
      ]
    },
    "strings": {
      "patterns": [
        {
          "name": "string.quoted.double.soplang",
          "begin": "\"",
          "end": "\"",
          "patterns": [
            {
              "name": "constant.character.escape.soplang",
              "match": "\\\\."
            }
          ]
        },
        {
          "name": "string.quoted.single.soplang",
          "begin": "'",
          "end": "'",
          "patterns": [
            {
              "name": "constant.character.escape.soplang",
              "match": "\\\\."
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    },
    "numbers": {
      "patterns": [
        {
          "name": "constant.numeric.soplang",
          "match": "\\b\\d+(?:\\.\\d+)?\\b"
        }
      ]
    },
    "identifiers": {
      "patterns": [
        {
          "name": "variable.other.soplang",
          "match": "\\b[a-zA-Z_][a-zA-Z0-9_]*\\b"
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

### Soplang Keywords

The language includes the following Somali-based keywords that are highlighted:

| Keyword | English Equivalent | Description |
|---------|-------------------|-------------|
| `door` | function | Defines a function |
| `howl` | return | Returns a value from a function |
| `soo_celi` | import | Imports modules or functions |
| `qor` | print | Outputs text to the console |
| `akhri` | input | Reads user input |
| `haddii` | if | Conditional statement |
| `haddii_kale` | else | Alternative conditional branch |
| `haddii_kalena` | elif | Additional conditional branch |
| `ku_celi` | for | Loop iteration |
| `inta_ay` | while | Conditional loop |
| `jooji` | break | Exits a loop |
| `sii_wad` | continue | Skips to next iteration |
| `isku_day` | try | Exception handling block |
| `qabo` | catch | Catches exceptions |
| `ka_keen` | from | Imports from modules |
| `fasalka` | class | Defines a class |
| `ka_dhaxal` | extends | Inherits from a class |
| `cusub` | new | Creates a new instance |
| `nafta` | self | References the current instance |
| `liis` | list | Array data structure |
| `shey` | object | Object data structure |
| `waxba` | null | Null value |
| `run` | true | Boolean true value |
| `been` | false | Boolean false value |

### Installation

To install the VSCode extension:

1. Open VS Code
2. Go to Extensions (Ctrl+Shift+X)
3. Search for "Soplang"
4. Click Install

Alternatively, you can download the extension from our [downloads page](https://soplang.org/downloads).

### Other Editors

We also provide syntax highlighting configurations for:
- Sublime Text
- Atom
- JetBrains IDEs (IntelliJ, PyCharm, etc.)
- Vim/Neovim

Visit our [documentation](https://soplang.org/docs/tools/syntax-highlighting) for installation instructions for these editors.

## Technical Implementation

### Tech Stack

- **Framework**: [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) for server-rendered React applications
- **Styling**: [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) for responsive, accessible design
- **Deployment**: [Vercel](https://vercel.com/) for seamless continuous deployment

### Getting Started for Developers

#### Prerequisites

- Node.js 18.x or later
- npm or yarn

#### Installation

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/soplang/soplang.org.git
cd soplang.org
```

2. Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
# or
yarn install
```

3. Run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
```

4. Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser to see the result.

## Project Structure

```
/soplang.org
├── src/                  # Source directory
│   ├── app/              # Next.js App Router
│   │   ├── about/        # About page
│   │   ├── blog/         # Blog pages
│   │   ├── community/    # Community page
│   │   ├── docs/         # Documentation pages
│   │   ├── downloads/    # Downloads page
│   │   └── page.tsx      # Homepage
│   ├── components/       # Reusable components
│   │   ├── Footer.tsx    # Footer component
│   │   ├── Navbar.tsx    # Navigation bar component
│   │   └── ...           # Other components
│   └── styles/           # Global styles
│       └── globals.css   # Global CSS with Tailwind imports
├── public/               # Static assets
├── next.config.js        # Next.js configuration
├── tailwind.config.js    # Tailwind CSS configuration
├── tsconfig.json         # TypeScript configuration
└── package.json          # Project dependencies and scripts
```

## Design Philosophy

### Accessibility First

Soplang is designed with accessibility as a priority. Our color scheme is specifically chosen to reduce eye strain during extended learning sessions:

```css
:root {
  --primary-color: #3F72AF; /* Soft blue - easier on eyes */
  --secondary-color: #5E9A78; /* Soft green - math education friendly */
  --background-color: #F9F7F7; /* Very light gray with slight warmth */
}
```

### Responsive Design

The platform is fully responsive, providing an optimal learning experience across all devices from desktop workstations to mobile phones.

## Contributing

We welcome contributions from educators, developers, and language enthusiasts. Whether you're improving documentation, adding new features, or fixing bugs, your input helps make programming education more accessible to everyone.

Please see our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information.

## Educational Partners

Soplang collaborates with educational institutions worldwide to develop curriculum materials and teaching methodologies. If you're an educator interested in partnering with us, please contact [education@soplang.org](mailto:education@soplang.org).

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Contact

- **Website**: [https://soplang.org](https://soplang.org)
- **Email**: [contact@soplang.org](mailto:contact@soplang.org)
- **Community**: [Discord](https://discord.gg/n296G4dd7x)
- **Twitter**: [@SoplangEdu](https://twitter.com/xSoplang)
